Add SUEID, discuss IDevID (#101)
ietf-rats-wg/eat: draft-ietf-rats-eat.md

There are privacy considerations for UEID's. See {{ueidprivacyconsiderations}}.

> The UEID is permanent. It never change for a given

Reviewer: FDO IOT standard has reached a final state:  https://fidoalliance.org/specs/FDO/fido-device-onboard-v1.0-ps-20210323/fido-device-onboard-v1.0-ps-20210323.html#DevAttnProt.  Removing the 'should' requirement will mean it is not compliant with EAT.  Would recommend leaving text as is.

Author: A couple points here Giri,

EAT's definition of the UEID as permanent has stood for a long time and we shouldn't really change that underneath of other implementations. FIDO IoT is not the only user of EAT.

The solution of two identifiers, one permanent and one that changes on lifecycle events seems like a good one that can serve lots of use cases. It is validated by IDevID/LDevID doing the same. Removing the should would destroy this solution.

FIDO standards change all the time, so this could be changed. FIDO also knew the situation before finalizing. Is there a substantial installed base of concern here for which there is no workaround?

Is there anything wrong with SUEID in this PR that would make it unsuitable for FIDO IoT? Haven't heard any comment on that yet.

Reviewer: No issue with SUEID.  Will take up the proposal with FIDO to get feedback.  

The other relevant text from Sec. 8.1:  

"The device authenticates the relying party and generates a derived UEID just for that particular relying party. "

This above is consistent with current FIDO usage, as the UEID is transitioned from manufacturer-assigned to the new relying party (in this case the Device Owner).  Or is SUEID meant to supplant the above?

implemented in commonly used CPU hardware.

# EAT Relation to IDevID

> This section describes several distinct ways in which an IEEE IDevID [IDevID] relates to EAT, particularly to UEID and SUEID.

Author: Done

## Signed Device IDs

A unique device identifier is of little use in security-related applications unless it is signed.
Without signing, it is trivial for attackers to forge a device identifier.

In a way IDevID and EAT are competitors.
They both provide signed unique device identifiers.

EAT provides the unique identifier as a single small data item, the UEID and SUEID.

> For IDevID the unique identifier is through and X.500 distinguished name, perhaps constructed from the certificate chain, 

Author: Done

> some how derived from the key material.

Author: Done

> This document argues EAT is the more general solution.

Reviewer 2: I suggest to drop this, it sounds like a value judgement.  Just say "Compared to DevID, EAT allows an open-ended [...]"

Author: Have done a lot of rewording do better here.

It allows an open-ended set of claims about the device to be signed and conveyed in addition to just the identifier.
It separates the signing scheme from the identification scheme.
EAT even allows use of external mechanisms to secure the device identifier and additional claims, for example use of TLS with UCCS.

## Permanence

In terms of permanence, an IDevID is similar to a UEID in that they do not change over the life of the device.
They cease to exist only when the device is destroyed.

An SUEID is similar to an LDevID.
They change on device life-cycle events.

> [IDevID] describes much of this permanence as resistant to attacks that seek to change the ID.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{IEEE802-1AR}} describes much of this permanence as resistant to attacks that seek to change the ID.
```

Author: Done

> Since EAT is for use on a range of device from high-security device to low-security devices, permanence can't be described this way here.

Reviewer 2: plural/singular: device, device, devices

Author: Done

Also, EAT is a protocol document that doesn't specify an implementation.

> By contrast, IDevID is primarily an implementation document, not a protocol document.

Reviewer 2: I don't understand these two claims.  Also IDevID is not a document.

Author: Hopefully rewording in first part of this appending addresses this.
